By default, sqoop-export appends new rows to a table; each input record is transformed into an INSERT statement that adds a row to the target database table. If your table has constraints (e.g., a primary key column whose values must be unique) and already contains data, you must take care to avoid inserting records that violate these constraints. The export process will fail if an INSERT statement fails. This mode is primarily intended for exporting records to a new, empty table intended to receive these results.

If you specify the --update-key argument, Sqoop will instead modify an existing dataset in the database. Each input record is treated as an UPDATE statement that modifies an existing row. The row a statement modifies is determined by the column name(s) specified with --update-key. For example, consider the following table definition:

CREATE TABLE foo(
    id INT NOT NULL PRIMARY KEY,
    msg VARCHAR(32),
    bar INT);
Consider also a dataset in HDFS containing records like these:

0,this is a test,42
1,some more data,100
...
Running sqoop-export --table foo --update-key id --export-dir /path/to/data --connect … will run an export job that executes SQL statements based on the data like so:

UPDATE foo SET msg='this is a test', bar=42 WHERE id=0;
UPDATE foo SET msg='some more data', bar=100 WHERE id=1;
...
If an UPDATE statement modifies no rows, this is not considered an error; the export will silently continue. (In effect, this means that an update-based export will not insert new rows into the database.) Likewise, if the column specified with --update-key does not uniquely identify rows and multiple rows are updated by a single statement, this condition is also undetected.

The argument --update-key can also be given a comma separated list of column names. In which case, Sqoop will match all keys from this list before updating any existing record.

Depending on the target database, you may also specify the --update-mode argument with allowinsert mode if you want to update rows if they exist in the database already or insert rows if they do not exist yet.
